docs(swatchgroup): refactor docs, add a11y section (#5699)
adobe/spectrum-web-components: packages/swatch/swatch-group.md

</sp-swatch-group>
```

</sp-tab-panel>
</sp-tabs>

#### Selection

An `<sp-swatch-group>` element can carry a selection of a `single` swatch or of `multiple` swatches. Then the `selects` property is set to one of these values, the `selected` property will surface an array the represents the string values that have been selected in the UI.

> When the value of `selected` is updated via user input, the `change` event will be dispatched on the `<sp-swatch-group>` element to announce that interaction. Calling `preventDefault()` on the `chagne` event will prevent both the `<sp-swatch-group>` and the `<sp-swatch>` that initiated the `change` interaction from updating their `selected` values.

Reviewer: I have a couple of ideas here that might need some massaging, but I think we clear some things up. 

First, I think maybe we should use the term "selection mode." I've seen that in React, and that makes it a little clearer (at least to me) what exactly we're talking about- that we have a "single selection" mode where a user can only select 1 swatch, while in "multiple selection" mode a user can select more than 1. 

Next, I think we need to clarify that `selected` is both on the `sp-swatch` based on the `change` event, and on the `sp-swatch-group`. I'll leave another comment that sort of rearranges some things in this paragraph to make it a little clearer which things are which.

> When the value of `selected` is updated via user input, the `change` event will be dispatched on the `<sp-swatch-group>` element to announce that interaction. Calling `preventDefault()` on the `chagne` event will prevent both the `<sp-swatch-group>` and the `<sp-swatch>` that initiated the `change` interaction from updating their `selected` values.

Reviewer: There's a typo in `change` (it's `chagne` right now.

> An `<sp-swatch-group>` element can carry a selection of a `single` swatch or of `multiple` swatches. Then the `selects` property is set to one of these values, the `selected` property will surface an array the represents the string values that have been selected in the UI.
> 
> When the value of `selected` is updated via user input, the `change` event will be dispatched on the `<sp-swatch-group>` element to announce that interaction. Calling `preventDefault()` on the `chagne` event will prevent both the `<sp-swatch-group>` and the `<sp-swatch>` that initiated the `change` interaction from updating their `selected` values.
> 
> The value of `selected` can also be provided directly from the `<sp-swatch>` children. Child `<sp-swatch>` elements with their own `selected` attribute will be gathered and merged with any other selection data on the `<sp-swatch-group>` parent to populate `selected`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `<sp-swatch-group>` element has two selection modes. The `selects` property can be set to either `single`, indicating a user can choose up to one swatch, or `multiple`, indicating a user can choose more than one swatch. 

When the `selects` property is set to one of these values, the `selected` property of `<sp-swatch-group>` will surface an array the represents the string values that have been selected in the UI. This `selected` property can be populated in two ways: though user input, or directly from `<sp-swatch>` children.

When the value of `selected` is updated via user input, the `change` event will be dispatched on the `<sp-swatch-group>` element to announce that interaction. Calling `preventDefault()` on the `change` event will prevent both the `<sp-swatch-group>` and the `<sp-swatch>` that initiated the `change` interaction from updating their `selected` values.

The value of the `selected` property also can be provided directly from the `<sp-swatch>` children. Child `<sp-swatch>` elements with their own `selected` attribute will be gathered and merged with any other selection data on the `<sp-swatch-group>` parent to populate `selected`.
```

<sp-tabs selected="single" auto label="Selection Attribute Options">
<sp-tab value="single">Single</sp-tab>
<sp-tab-panel value="single">

> The `selected` property is always represented as an array, and as such an application leveraging an `<sp-swatch-group>` element can apply more than one selection, regardless of the vaue of `selects`, however all future interactions will force the interace to a single selection.

Reviewer: There's a typo with "value:" regardless of the _value_ of `selects`...

When the `selects` property is set to one of these values, the `selected` property of `<sp-swatch-group>` will surface an array the represents the string values that have been selected in the UI. This `selected` property can be populated in two ways: though user input, or directly from `<sp-swatch>` children.

When the value of `selected` is updated via user input, the `change` event will be dispatched on the `<sp-swatch-group>` element to announce that interaction. Calling `preventDefault()` on the `change` event will prevent both the `<sp-swatch-group>` and the `<sp-swatch>` that initiated the `change` interaction from updating their `selected` values.

The value of the `selected` property also can be provided directly from the `<sp-swatch>` children. Child `<sp-swatch>` elements with their own `selected` attribute will be gathered and merged with any other selection data on the `<sp-swatch-group>` parent to populate `selected`.

<sp-tabs selected="single" auto label="Selection Attribute Options">
<sp-tab value="single">Single</sp-tab>
<sp-tab-panel value="single">

> The `selected` property is always an array, so applications can programmatically set multiple selections regardless of the value of `selects`. However, user interactions will respect the `selects` property and enforce either single or multiple selection behavior accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Looking over this again, I'm wondering if this might fit better outside of `<sp-tabs>`?

Just because before it was showing a single select example that had 2 elements in the array because they were programmatically placed there, and now we have a single select example that only is programmatically selecting 1 swatch so therefore will _always_ have 1 element in the array.

Still cool with this example as is, but the explanation no longer fits the example so probably doesn't need to be in the tab panel, even though it's useful information.

Author: Ah okay I understand what you mean now !

>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-blue-500)"></sp-swatch>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-indigo-500)"></sp-swatch>

>     <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-purple-500)" selected></sp-swatch>

Reviewer: good find!

<div>Selected: [ "color-2", "color-1", "color-3" ]</div>
```

> ### Swatch modifying attributes

Reviewer: We need examples of each of these attributes! They don't quite all work together, (like you can't have a rectangle swatch, but also have full rounding because full rounding makes it a circle 🤔 ), so this might be a good place for a set of tabs again. 

I am imagining tabs for: 
- shape="rectangle"
- rounding="full"
- rounding="none"

<img width="194" height="272" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-19 at 5 34 06 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c735c738-ae28-4440-b81c-1336f8c0a412" />

- border="light" 
- border="none"

<img width="408" height="138" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-19 at 5 34 49 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bc51454f-69c9-402d-bdcf-a119aa5dff59" />

are any of those specific to the swatch component, as opposed to the swatch _group_ component? The only that I think might be swatch-specific would be the border property.

> An `<sp-swatch-group>` element can be modified by the following attributes/properties to customize its delivery as desired for your use case: `border`, `disabled`, `mixedValue` (accepted as the `mixed-value` attribute), `nothing`, `rounding`, `shape`, and `size`. Use these in concert with each other for a variety of final visual deliveries. Applying a value for one of these attributes/properties to an `<sp-swatch-group>` element will have it forward the value to all of the `<sp-swatch>` elements that are a direct child of the group, overriding any value that may be applied directly to those children. For example:

Reviewer: Does SWC support all of these attributes on the swatch group? Maybe I'm adding it wrong, but if I put `disabled` on the sp-swatch-group nothing happens. Same with mixed value and nothing- I don't see stories for those use cases either. 

Disabled, nothing, and mixedValue all work on individual swatches, but _not_ for swatch group, so maybe we leave those off?

```html
<sp-swatch-group border="light" rounding="full" shape="rectangle" size="l">
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-blue-500)"></sp-swatch>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-indigo-500)"></sp-swatch>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-purple-500)"></sp-swatch>
</sp-swatch-group>
```

> ### Accessibility

Author: @rise-erpelding, Good catch on this!

#### Best practices

- Ensure swatches have sufficient color contrast for visibility.

> - Verify that swatches are appropriately labeled for screen readers.

Reviewer: Can we expand on this any further? I'm assuming they would be labeled with `aria-label`?

```

### Swatch modifying attributes

An `<sp-swatch-group>` element can be modified by the following attributes/properties to customize its delivery as desired for your use case: `border`, `density`, `rounding`, `shape`, and `size`. Use these in concert with each other for a variety of final visual deliveries. Applying a value for one of these attributes/properties to an `<sp-swatch-group>` element will have it forward the value to all of the `<sp-swatch>` elements that are a direct child of the group, overriding any value that may be applied directly to those children.

Once applied to an `<sp-swatch-group>` element, the value of the `border`, `rounding`, `shape`, and `size` attributes/properties cannot be overridden on the children `<sp-swatch>` elements.

<sp-tabs selected="shape" auto label=" Attribute Options">
<sp-tab value="shape">Shape</sp-tab>
<sp-tab-panel value="shape">

```html
<sp-swatch-group shape="rectangle">
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-blue-500)"></sp-swatch>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-indigo-500)"></sp-swatch>
    <sp-swatch color="var(--spectrum-purple-500)"></sp-swatch>
</sp-swatch-group>
```

</sp-tab-panel>

> <sp-tab value="rounding">Rounding</sp-tab>

Reviewer: Do you think it is useful to show the `rounding="none"` option? According to [the design guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/swatch-group/#Corner-rounding-in-swatch-groups), that's actually the preferred/default corner rounding for swatch groups. We haven't shown that anywhere in the docs, however.

Along the same lines, do you think it would be useful to show the `border="none"` option? I was just thinking we should show examples of all of the available values for those attributes, since it's not super clear just from the API table.
